                         GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS  
                            PC-Pine 3.89  

Copyright 1989-1993 University of Washington.  
Pine is a trademark of the University of Washington.

PC-Pine (and Unix Pine) are still under active development.  New 
versions will be released as bug fixes and new features become available. 

This file contains general information about Pine and details about 
Pine's command-line options.  For details on installation, see the file
install.txt

The PC-Pine distribution comes in several flavors:

   pcpine_f.zip    version for FTP's PC/TCP
   pcpine_p.zip    version for Packet Driver
   pcpine_n.zip    version for Novell's LWP
   pcpine_s.zip    version for Sun's PC/NFS

What PC-Pine is:
    o  DOS version of Pine electronic message system
    o  IMAP client for remote mail or news access
    o  NNTP client for remote news access
    o  SMTP client for sending Internet mail

Features of PC-Pine:
    o  Easy-to-use character-oriented interface
    o  Ability to access large mailboxes and messages
    o  Ability to include files from your PC as MIME attachments
    o  Full read/write use of remote folders and collections
    o  Support for marking, cutting and pasting in composer
    o  Saves messages to the local PC or a remote folder
    o  Some mouse support
    o  Mechanism for retrieval of future PC-Pine releases

Pine Command-Line Options
-------------------------

We expect that most times you will use Pine without any command line 
options -- it will behave according to predefined defaults and settings 
in your PINERC file.  The i,k,z, and sort command line flags will override
the corresponding options in the PINERC file.

 -f FOLDER  Open the names folder on startup (instead of the pre-defined
            inbox).  Any valid remote or local folder can be specified.
            If the folder-name is ambiguous (not a full path name), it is
            assumed to be relative to the defined default collection.

 -i         Begin pine in the Index screen.  (Shortcut for "-I i"
	    using option below). 

 -I         Initial keystroke list.  Pine executes these keys upon 
            startup.  For this option, the letters "CR" Pine are 
            equivalent to pressing the "Enter" key; "SPC" is 
            equivalent to pressing the spacebar.  For example 
            "Pine -I i,j,1,3,CR,v" starts you off by viewing the
            13th message of the standard INBOX.

 -k         Use function keys for commands (instead of control keys)

 -h         Print out help on the possible flags and arguments
            that can be given in Pine.

 -p FILE    Use the named file as the Pine configuration file for this
            session

 -sort KEY  Sort the folder according to one of the following keys:
                arrival, subject, from, date, size
            Any sort may be reversed by adding "/reverse" to it.

 -z         Enable Ctrl-Z to suspend Pine

